
                                                                                                         Demo of Spire.PDF 
                                                           New Zealand 
                       New Zealand (Māori: Aotearoa) is an island country located in the southwestern Pacific 
                       Ocean. The country geographically comprises two main landmasses ‒ that of the North 
                       and South Islands ‒ as well as numerous smaller islands. New Zealand is situated some 
                       1,500 kilometres (900 mi) east of Australia across the Tasman Sea and roughly 1,000 
                       kilometres (600 mi) south of the Pacific island nations of New Caledonia, Fiji, and Tonga. 
                       Because of its remoteness, it was one of the last lands to be settled by humans. 
                                                                                 During its long isolation, New Zealand 
                                                                                 developed a distinctive biodiversity of 
                                                                                 both animal and plant life. Most notable 
                                                                                 are the large number of unique  bird 
                                                                                 species, many of which became extinct 
                                                                                 after the arrival of humans and 
                                                                                 introduced mammals. With a mild 
                                                                                 maritime climate, the land was mostly 
                       covered in forest. The country's varied topography and its sharp mountain peaks owe 
                       much to the tectonic uplift of land and volcanic eruptions caused by the Pacific and 
                       Indo-Australian Plates clashing beneath the earth's surface. 
                       Polynesians settled New Zealand in 1250–1300 CE and developed a distinctive Māori 
                       culture, and Europeans first made contact in 1642 CE. The introduction of potatoes and 
                       muskets triggered upheaval among Māori early during the 19th century, which led to 
                       the inter-tribal Musket Wars. In 1840 the British and Māori signed a treaty making New 
                       Zealand a colony of the British Empire. Immigrant numbers increased sharply and 
                       conflicts escalated into the New Zealand Wars, which resulted in much Māori land being 
                       confiscated in the mid North Island. Economic depressions were followed by periods of 
                       political reform, with women gaining the vote during the 1890s, and a welfare state 
                       being established from the 1930s. After World War II, New Zealand joined Australia and 
                       the United States in the ANZUS security treaty, although the United States later, until 
                        
                                                                                                         Demo of Spire.PDF 
                       2010, suspended the treaty after New Zealand banned nuclear weapons. New Zealand is 
                       part of the intelligence sharing among the Anglosphere countries, the UKUSA 
                       Agreement. New Zealanders enjoyed one of the highest standards of living in the world 
                       in the 1950s, but the 1970s saw a deep recession, worsened by oil shocks and the 
                       United Kingdom's entry into the European Economic Community. The country 
                       underwent major economic changes during the 1980s, which transformed it from a 
                       protectionist to a liberalised free-trade economy. Markets for New Zealand's agricultural 
                       exports have diversified greatly since the 1970s, with once-dominant exports of wool 
                       being overtaken by dairy products, meat, and recently wine. 
                       The majority of New Zealand's population is of European descent; the indigenous Māori 
                       are the largest minority, followed by Asians and non-Māori Polynesians. English, Māori 
                       and New Zealand Sign Language are the official languages, with English predominant. 
                       Much of New Zealand's culture is derived from Māori and early British settlers. Early 
                       European art was dominated by landscapes and to a lesser extent portraits of Māori. A 
                       recent resurgence of Māori culture has seen their traditional arts of carving, weaving 
                       and tattooing become more mainstream. Many artists now combine Māori and Western 
                       techniques to create unique art forms. The country's culture has also been broadened 
                       by globalisation and increased immigration from the Pacific Islands and Asia. New 
                       Zealand's diverse landscape provides many opportunities for outdoor pursuits and has 
                       provided the backdrop for a number of big budget movies. 
                       New Zealand is organised into 11 regional councils and 67 territorial authorities for local 
                       government purposes; these have less autonomy than the country's long defunct 
                       provinces did. Nationally, executive political power is exercised by the Cabinet, led by 
                       the Prime Minister. Queen Elizabeth II is the country's head of state and is represented 
                       by a Governor-General. The Queen's Realm of New Zealand also includes Tokelau (a 
                       dependent territory); the Cook Islands and Niue (self-governing but in free association); 
                       and the Ross Dependency, which is New Zealand's territorial claim in Antarctica. New 
                       Zealand is a member of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation, Commonwealth of 
                        
                                                                                                         Demo of Spire.PDF 
                       Nations, Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, Pacific Islands 
                       Forum, and the United Nations. 
                        